1 Assessment of Level 4 Projects
1.1 Guidelines for Students, Supervisors and Readers
The project will be assessed by two examiners, who will normally be the project supervisor and a
nominated reader.
The assessed work consists of:
● A dissertation, with a fixed page limit. 40/30 pages for 40/20 credit projects 85%
○ along with all source code and supplementary materials.
● A video presentation. 5%
● An appraisement of the student’s professional conduct during the year. 10%
The dissertation is primary evidence of student output. No matter how well a student does in the
supervisor’s eyes, it is the dissertation that is marked. It must be possible to justify the mark awarded
from the dissertation without other reference to the student’s other achievements. All other evidence
(video, source code, raw data) is supplementary. Marks will be awarded on the basis of the dissertation.
The dissertation is the lens through which the product is viewed.
The assessment will also include the supervisor’s judgement of the professional conduct of the student.
This is an important part of the assessment and should not be taken lightly.
1.2 Learning outcomes
The assessment should assess the student’s attainment of the learning outcomes for the project
module. These outcomes are listed below. An excellent project should excel in all of these aspects.
Students should be able to:
1. Manage and organise a large independent solo piece of work
2. Choose among technologies, tools and approaches and apply them effectively
3. Synthesise technical skills appropriately to address a single challenging problem
4. Develop a substantial product which demonstrates technical achievement in computer science.
5. Appropriately evaluate the outcome of their work
6. Conduct themselves in a professional manner, taking responsibility for the progress of the
project, recording their time and effectively using their supervisor’s input
7. Write a coherent, literate dissertation that documents the project, justifies decisions made and
sets their work in context
8. Present their work orally to a technical audience, communicating their project precisely and
fluently
9. Produce concise, informative visual summaries of their work
2 Assessment Criteria
The assessment criteria for Level 4 projects, together with their weights are shown below. The
supervisor can vary the weights for those components in gray for a particular project by ±5%. Weights
for Professional Conduct and Presentation Skills are fixed.
There are two marking schemes: one for software engineering-type projects, and one for research-type
projects. Some projects involve a mixture of both software engineering and research; markers should
use their judgement.
2.0.1 Marking process
The supervisor and reader must mark the project in detail, by deciding a band for each criterion and
providing a written justification for the band. The Presentation and Professional Conduct elements
are marked by the supervisor only.
In arriving at bands supervisors and readers should exercise their judgement regarding the difficulty level
of the project and achievement of the student. A less challenging project may be easily completed,
whilst a more challenging project might be incomplete but a more impressive achievement.
2.0.2 Combined Honours Students
A combined honours project carries 20 credits, rather than 40 credits for a single honours project. See
the addendum for 20 credit projects.
2.1 Software Engineering projects
2.1.1 Analysis 15%
Clarity of thought; precise formulation of problem; understanding of context.
Has the student analysed the problem, and devised a suitable approach for solving it? Has the student
surveyed relevant literature and existing software products? Has he/she captured the requirements?
2.1.2 Software Product 40%
Software design, implementation, and documentation where appropriate
Is the software well-designed, functional, reliable, robust, efficient, usable, maintainable, and well-
documented? Has it been demonstrated? Is the product represented adequately in the dissertation?
2.1.3 Evaluation 10%
Testing and user evaluation where appropriate; suggestions for future work Has the software been
thoroughly tested, and subjected to appropriate user evaluation? Does the student have good
suggestions for further work?
2.1.4 Dissertation 20%
Completeness and coherence, organisation, literacy, bibliography
Is the dissertation complete, well-organised, and literate? Does it clearly explain the problem, and how
the software was designed, implemented, tested, and evaluated? Does it contain a bibliography and
proper citations? Is it well illustrated with appropriate technical imagery?
2.1.5 Professional Conduct 10%
Engagement with supervisor; independence; time management; tool use
Did the student attend meetings, and engage effectively with the supervisor? Was time in meetings used
well? Were suitable tools used to manage the project? Was time managed effectively? Did the student
lead the project? (see the Professional Conduct marking scheme)
2.1.6 Presentation 5%
Oral presentation skills
Did the content reflect a knowledge and understanding of the work done? Were visual aids used
effectively? Was the delivery fluent and confident, and well presented?
2.2 Research-style projects
2.2.1 Analysis 15%
Clarity of thought; precise formulation of problem; understanding of context.
Has the student analysed the problem, and devised a suitable approach for solving it? Has the student
surveyed relevant literature? Have clear research questions been developed?
2.2.2 Research Product 40%
Quality of the research, innovation, rigour in the way it is conducted,
Has the research been conducted well (i.e. scientifically sound)? Does it show evidence of
original thinking? Are there significant errors? Would the research be worth of publication after
revision?
2.2.3 Evaluation 10%
Evaluation of research results, scientific analysis, suggestions for further work
Has the student critically evaluated and analysed the research results? Is the evaluation an honest and
fair assessment of the study? Are results summarised and communicated well (appropriate graphics,
statistical analysis, etc.) Is there evidence that the significance of the research is understood? Are there
good suggestions for further work?
2.2.4 Dissertation 20%
Completeness and coherence, organisation, literacy, bibliography
Is the dissertation complete, well-organised, and literate? Does it clearly explain the problem, and how
the software was designed, implemented, tested, and evaluated? Does it contain a bibliography and
proper citations? Is it well illustrated with appropriate technical imagery?
2.2.5 Professional Conduct 10%
Engagement with supervisor; independence; time management; tool use
Did the student attend meetings, and engage effectively with the supervisor? Was time in meetings used
well? Were suitable tools used to manage the project? Was time managed effectively? Did the student
lead the project? (see the Professional Conduct marking scheme)
2.2.6 Presentation 5%
Presentation skills
Did the content reflect a knowledge and understanding of the work done? Were visual aids used
effectively? Was the delivery fluent and confident, with good eye contact?
3 Reconciliation and Arbitration
First and second markers bands may differ. Where this happens:
● If marks differ by 0–2 bands, the supervisor’s overall mark will be taken as the final mark.
● If marks differ by more than 2 bands, the supervisor and reader must confer to reconcile their
marks. If they are unable to agree, the projects coordinator will invoke arbitration.
● All markers must agree on a joint text justifying the reconciled grade and enter this into the
system before marking is complete.
● If marks differ by more than 4 bands, arbitration should normally be invoked.
● A project which receives a reconciled grade of a less than D3 (fail) or a grade of A1 or A2 must
be third marked.
● The projects coordinator has absolute discretion to invoke arbitration for any other reason, for
example: where the two marks fall on either side of a critical borderline; where one of the
markers requests it; or where the agreed mark seems unreasonably high or low; where there is
any question of collusion of markers.
● Arbitration entails engaging a third marker, who marks the projects independently. All three
markers confer to decide the final mark.
● In cases of unresolved dispute after arbitration has completed, the projects coordinator has final
authority to assign a mark.
3.0.1 Grade Descriptors
Project grade descriptors are presented below. Because projects vary so much in content and style,
markers will have to interpret these guidelines using their own judgement. High A grades are exceptional
and should not be awarded lightly. Grade descriptors for the Presentation Skills component are shown
on the following page.The marking scheme for Professional Conduct follow, along with a checklist of
questions to help assess professional conduct consistently.
4 Grade descriptors
4.1 Project marking scheme
4.1.1 A1-A5 Excellent
Analysis The problem analysis is excellent. The survey is comprehensive. The approach is definitely
feasible.
Product The product is extremely well designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is extremely thorough. There are excellent suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is complete, very well organised, very clear, and highly literate.
Overall An excellent project. Few errors. Shows good judgement and skill in the methods used.
A1 or A2 indicates a truly outstanding and challenging project, definitely worthy of wider
dissemination.
4.1.2 B1-B3 Very Good
Analysis The problem analysis is very good. The survey is wide. The approach is feasible.
Product The product is very well designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is very thorough. There are very good suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is complete, well organised, clear, and literate.
Overall A very good project. Some flaws but the student has demonstrated a high level of competence
and initiative.
4.1.3 C1-C3 Good
Analysis The problem analysis is good. The survey is reasonable. The approach is reasonably feasible.
Product The product is well designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is quite thorough. There are some good suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is nearly complete, fairly well organised, mostly clear, but occasionally
less than literate.
Overall A good project. There are flaws but the student has demonstrated competence and initiative.
4.1.4 D1-D3 Adequate
Analysis The problem analysis is adequate. The survey is patchy. The approach is just about feasible.
Product The product is adequately designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is just adequate. There are unconvincing suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is partly complete, not very well organised, clear in parts, and often less
than literate.
Overall A fair project. There are many flaws but the overall performance is satisfactory.
4.1.4.1 A grade below D3 is a fail.
4.1.5 E1-E3 Weak
Analysis The problem analysis is rather confused. The survey is inadequate. The approach is
unconvincing.
Product The product is inadequately designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is barely adequate. There are weak suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is incomplete, disorganised, mostly unclear, and mostly less than literate.
Overall A weak project. There are significant flaws, indicating a lack of understanding of the methods
used.
4.1.6 F1-F3 Poor
Analysis The problem analysis is confused. The survey is poor. The approach is ill-conceived.
Product The product is badly designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is inadequate. There are scant suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is scrappy, disorganised, unclear, and less than literate.
Overall A poor project. There are major problems but also signs of some work.
4.1.7 G1-G2 Very poor
Analysis The problem analysis is very confused. The survey is very poor. The approach is very
ill-conceived.
Product The product is very badly designed, implemented, and documented.
Evaluation The evaluation is worthless. There are worthless or no suggestions for further work.
Dissertation The dissertation is very scrappy, disorganised, opaque, and less than literate.
Overall A very poor project. There are major problems and very few signs of any constructive work.
4.1.8 H No significant attempt
4.2 Presentation marking scheme
4.2.1 A1-A5 Excellent
Organisation Choice of topics to summarise this part of the project indicates an excellent knowledge
and understanding of the work done. Reveals an excellent depth of insight into the work.
Visual aids Very attractive and informative visual aids (e.g., figures, screenshots, and tables),
communicating effectively a summary of the key points to the audience.
Delivery Fluent, confident delivery. Flowing narrative from one topic to next.
4.2.2 B1-B3 Very good
Organisation Topics chosen indicate a very good knowledge and understanding of the work done.
Reveals some insight into the work.
Visual aids Visual aids are informative in general and succeed in communicating effectively a summary
of the key points to the audience.
Delivery Mostly fluent, confident delivery. Good eye contact and narrative flow from one topic to next.
4.2.3 C1-D3 Good/adequate
Organisation Topics chosen indicate some knowledge and understanding of the work, however
conveys little insight into the work.
Visual aids Visual aids are satisfactory to good, though some of the key issues are lost to the audience,
perhaps because there are too many points to be covered in the time available, or the visual aids do not
contain enough information.
Delivery Hesitant or somewhat hesitant delivery. Some eye contact in places. Disjointed narrative flow
from one topic to next.
4.2.4 E1-E3 Weak
Organisation Topics chosen indicate a weak knowledge and understanding of the problem to be
solved.
Visual aids Visual aids are weak and make the narrative confusing.
Delivery Halting delivery. Very little eye contact – possibly reading entirely from notes. Little narrative
flow from one topic to next.
4.2.5 F1-G2 Poor/very poor
Organisation The content of the talk is minimal or largely inappropriate and reveals a significant lack of
knowledge and understanding of the problem to be solved.
Visual aids Visual aids are poor or non-existent, giving very little benefit to the audience.
Delivery Incoherent, disorganised delivery. No eye contact. No narrative flow from one topic to next.
4.2.6 H No significant attempt
4.3 Professional Conduct Marking Scheme
Professional conduct varies according to supervisor style. Use your judgement to decide what aspects
are relevant. But make clear to students what you expect, and how you will assess it if you deviate from
these guidelines.
Good professional conduct should demonstrate independence; courtesy; organization; time
management; adherence to legal and ethical guidelines; and technical project management.
A1-A5: Exceptional professionalism. The student carried out independent work, was always prepared
thoroughly, very effectively applied appropriate tools and made excellent use of your time. For high A
grades (A1-A3), this should reflect the level of professionalism you would expect from a professional
consultant, and be genuinely impressive on all counts.
B1-B3: Solid professional conduct. Work was independent, perhaps with some intervention required to
keep things moving. Not all best practices followed with minuting meetings or preparing for them, but a
clear attempt shown to use time effectively. Acceptable use of tools, but unsophisticated or
overcomplicated use of version control, etc.
C1-C3: Acceptable conduct. A reasonable level of guidance was required with scoping required by the
supervisor throughout the project. Meetings were not always useful or content had to be repeated. Use
of tools was present but not clear student was using them effectively.
D1-D3: Barely acceptable conduct. Significant help in planning and running project required. Unable to
take forward project without step-by-step instructions. Suggestions for improvement not taken on
board. Meetings were sometimes a waste of time and were missed on occasion. Very limited use of
tools.
E1-E3: Unacceptable conduct. Only a limited effort by the student in running the project. Meetings
never minuted, little to no preparation for meetings, incorrect or inappropriate use of tools. Student was
rude/uncooperative. Failed to follow basic professional practices (e.g. failed to get ethical clearance after
being informed to do so).
F1-F3: Poor conduct. Student needed hand-holding the whole way through the project. Meetings
largely wasted. No use of tools. Failed to follow basic practices. Could not be trusted to work on their
own. Student failed to communicate or was wilfully obstructive.
G1-G2: Problematic conduct. Student did not take any responsibility for the project. Student was
hostile or effectively absent. No understanding of appropriate tools. Serious violations of basic practices,
even after warning.
H: Only if student is never seen during project (this should never happen!).
4.3.1 Professional Conduct: Checklist
These questions are intended to give a basis to consider student professional behaviour. Some may not
apply, and you should interpret them as you see fit.
4.3.2 Meetings
Did the student attend meetings regularly, and rearrange when required?
Did the student attend meetings reasonably on time? (by academic standards!)
Did the student come prepared to meetings?
With a clear status report?
With prepared questions to ask?
With demo/code ready to show (if appropriate)?
Did the student record in some way (e.g. minutes) what was said in meetings? (or did you find yourself
repeating yourself?)
Did you get a chance to review minutes taken?
Was the student polite and courteous in meetings?
Overall, did the student make good use of your time?
4.3.3 Independence and motivation
Did the student take initiative in leading the work?
Were they proactive in doing background research, exploring ideas and bringing their own thoughts to
the project?
Did the student complete the project without requiring step-by-step handholding?
Did the student take on board suggestions intelligently?
Did the student record the time they spent working on their project?
Did this correspond to reality?
Did they honestly assess their own progress without attempting to deceive or offering excuses?
Did the student consult you when things went wrong?
And make good use of advice offered?
Did the student plan their time effectively?
Did they make a reasonable attempt to adhere to this timeline, and manage obstacles that came up
sensibly?
4.3.4 Professional behaviour
Did the student follow applicable procedural guidelines or legal requirements (ethical approval, IP
agreements/NDAs, confidentiality, data protection) carefully?
If the project involved external clients, did the student interact professionally with the client?
Were there instances where the student’s professional behaviour could have reflected badly on the
University, or negatively influenced collaborations you have established/are establishing?
If the project involved collaboration, was the student active and involved in the collaboration? Or did
they drop the ball or require you to keep things going?
4.3.5 Tools
Did the student use appropriate version control? (version control is not optional for Level 4 students,
unless you have a very strong justification)
Was use of version control at an appropriate level of sophistication for the work? (neither too complex
nor too simple)
Did the student use appropriate tools for development (e.g. didn’t edit their source code in WordPad)?
Did the student use appropriate software to support development, writing and deployment (e.g. build
systems, automated experimental analysis, deployment management systems) or was the project held
together with hacky solutions?
Was data stored, transmitted and managed in a secure way, e.g. with respect to data protection (only
where applicable)?
4.4 Addendum: 20 credit projects
If a student is doing a joint degree, the project will be 20 credits, rather than 40 credits.
Bear the following points in mind:
Axiom: A 20cr project should take 200 hours of work, as compared to 400 for the 40cr project, but
be of similar “quality of work”.
4.4.1 Smaller but thorough
A 20cr project getting an A (for example) should demonstrate the same intellectual abilities as a 40cr
project getting an A, but have less depth or be less well developed. For example, a project that might be
criticised as having “been let down with a weak evaluation” or “having a relatively simplistic
implementation” when calibrated against 40cr projects might still be a very good 20cr project. However,
an excellent 20cr project will tackle a smaller problem than a 40cr project but do so completely and
thoroughly.
4.4.2 Not unfinished
An unfinished project should be graded as such. Part of the project experience is to evaluate your
capabilities in scoping work appropriately. Getting halfway through a 40cr project’s worth of work
indicates a serious lack of scoping.
4.4.3 Self contained
In some cases (e.g. a research-based project) the questions being answered may be open-ended, and
here a 20cr project might have explored fewer of the questions, or answered less completely. In a
software engineering style project, the project should be complete, but have tackled a smaller problem.
In all cases, a top-quality project is a still a complete, self-contained whole.
4.4.4 Dissertation limit
A 20 credit project has a 30 page limit. This means that some dissertations may struggle to explain the
project with same level of detail as might be expected from a 40cr dissertation. This may particularly
affect research projects or software engineering projects dealing with complex existing systems or
theory, where a significant portion of the write-up is necessarily dedicated to explaining the background.
4.4.5 Not an uplifted 40 credit project
A 20 credit project is never simply marked as a 40 credit project and then has its grade uplifted!




1 Level 4 Project Guide 2024/2025
The Level 4 individual project is a very important part of your degree. This guide summarises
some of the essential information about the project. The Level 4 project is 33% of your Level 4
grade. This has a major effect on your degree classification.
Note: if you fail your project (grade < D3), you will be ineligible to receive an Honours
degree.
1.1 Time allocation
For a 40 credit project, you should expect to spend at least 400 hours working on your project.
This corresponds to 16 hours a week during regular term time.
In weeks 12 and 13 of Semester 1 you will have no, or very few, classes. You are expected to
work full time on the project (40 hours a week) during this period. Do not squander this time;
prepare for it well and use it fully.
1.2 Assessment
The project is assessed in three parts:
Assesment Mark Distribution
10%
5%
85%
Dissertation Project Presentation Professional Conduct
Note: the majority of the marks are awarded for the dissertation. No marks at all are
awarded for the physical product itself -- but you must produce a significant product to be able to
write the dissertation.
1.3 Learning outcomes
These are the learning outcomes for the Level 4 project. You need to show that you have achieved
these goals in the project assessment.
Students should be able to:
● Manage and organise a large independent solo piece of work
● Choose among technologies, tools and approaches and apply them effectively
● Synthesise technical skills appropriately to address a single challenging problem
● Develop a substantial product which demonstrates technical achievement in computer
science.
● Appropriately evaluate the outcome of their work
● Conduct themselves in a professional manner, taking responsibility for the progress of
the project, recording their time and effectively using their supervisor’s input
● Write a coherent, literate dissertation that documents the project, justifies decisions made
and sets their work in context
● Present their work orally to a technical audience, communicating their project precisely
and fluently
2 The project module
The individual project is your work.
Unlike most of the courses you have taken, the responsibility for running the project module lies
squarely with you. We provide support, but you will have to manage and organise your own work.
You will have a project supervisor who can give you guidance and direction, but you must
demonstrate that you are independently leading the work. Make good use of your supervisor --
they will have limited time available, so make sure you prepare well for meetings and take on
board guidance offered.
2.1 What we offer you
A choice of projects to undertake. Assignments will be made taking your preferences into
account. This is not a guarantee that you will get the project you want, but every effort will be
made to do so. The allocation is done algorithmically to ensure fairness in the allocation.
Regular supervision. Your supervisor will meet with you once a week during term time, for a
duration of up to half an hour. Any other contact with your supervisor is exceptional and at their
option.
Fair marking. Your project will be marked by two members of staff, using the guidelines you can
see on Moodle, and a formal reconciliation process (which may include a third independent maker)
will be used to award a final grade.
2.2 What you need to do
Act professionally and independently: You are expected to work in a professional manner,
leading the work, managing your own time and using your supervisor’s time effectively. You must
follow rules on academic plagiarism and ethical approval (and intellectual property/non-disclosure
agreements, if applicable to your project).
Produce a significant product: A good project requires a serious product, which demonstrates
technical sophistication in computer science appropriately applied to a problem. You need to show
that you can both build something substantial, and that you can build the right something.
Write an excellent dissertation: The dissertation is the only part of your project that is marked,
excluding the specific marks for the presentation and professional conduct. You must demonstrate
that your product is excellent through the dissertation. If you write thousands of lines of excellent
code and a scrappy dissertation, you will do poorly. Conversely, if you write a few lines of scrappy
code, you will be unable to write an impressive dissertation regardless of how polished the writing
is.
2.3 Allocation
Projects are allocated before the first week of semester 1. The project proposal process has a
number of precise rules, which are necessary to allocate projects fairly.
There are two basic types of projects that you can undertake:
(a) staff proposed projects: Allocated by an open bidding process in week 1 of semester 1.
(b) self-defined projects: Agreed with a supervisor before the start of semester 1.
2.3.1 (a) Staff proposed
A portfolio of projects are proposed by members of staff and are available to view by students
during a bidding period in week 1. These project proposals are put into our system by staff and
are automatically allocated to students following a bidding and ranking process.
For this process, you will rank eight (8) projects, and be matched with one of these options. We
do our best to match students to their top choices, but we cannot guarantee that everyone will get
their preferred choices so be sure to select eight (8) projects that you will want to do. Most projects
(~90%) are of this type.
Once announced, these allocations are final.
2.3.2 (b) Self-defined
A student approaches a member of staff and develops a project proposal. The project proposal is
entered into the system and allocated to that student. It is the student's responsibility to seek out
a supervisor. Failure to find a supervisor means that project will not run.
There is no guarantee that a supervisor will be available and willing to supervise the project, and
we do not offer a matchmaking service for student proposed projects. Note that self-defined
projects are exceptional and are only suitable for students who already have a clear idea of what
they want to do. (Information about the (student/self)-defined project process was distributed, and
the process is completed before the start of the semester)
2.3.3 Deadline for self-defined projects
If you intend to do a self-defined project, you must have the proposal entered into the project
system by your supervisor before the start of the bidding process. This is a hard deadline.
All self-defined projects must be entered before the portfolio of staff proposed projects is made
visible, to prevent unfair “sniping” of projects without going through the allocation process.
2.3.3.1 Software Engineers
If you are a Software Engineering (SE) student, you must do a software engineering project.
Projects suitable for SE students will be marked as such in the project portal.
3 Deadlines
The project module has very few mandatory deadlines. You will be expected to set your own
timeline and goals and manage the project independently.
All deadlines can be found on the level 4 project Moodle page.
4 Project types
There are two broad styles of projects:
• Product-style projects, where the output should be a significant software artifact (strong
design, programming and testing focus)
• Research-style projects, where the output should focus on a research contribution (strong
analysis, often empirical work)
All projects must have an evaluation portion. This is specifically assessed in the marking
scheme.
Please consult the appropriate column of the table on the next page for your degree programme.
The project descriptors for Computing Science and Software Engineering/ESE are slightly
different.
4.1 Computing Science
4.1.1 CS: Research-style
A research-type project is one whose main purpose is experimentation or investigation into a
(possibly) ill-understood problem. Even in these projects the student will be expected to produce
intermediate documents indicating progress.
Finally, the student is expected to submit a dissertation describing the results of the investigation.
The educational justification for such projects is training in research methods and often good
research-type projects can lead to a publication.
4.1.2 CS: Product-Focused Projects
A product focused project is one whose main purpose is to design and implement a software
system that solves a (more-or-less) well-understood problem. The student is expected to proceed
in a well organised manner, passing through a series of phases each of which culminates in a
deliverable document.
Finally, the student must submit a dissertation that includes a project report together with the
implemented software and appropriate documentation. The educational justification for such
projects is training in professional software engineering methods.
4.2 Product Style
4.2.1 SE: Research-style
These should address a research problem connected with the practice of Software Engineering.
This definition can and should be interpreted very broadly. A project, might for example
investigate:
• A new method for managing user stories across distributed teams using augmented reality
technology.
• Novel techniques for discovering security vulnerabilities in code bases.
The assessment for research led projects follows the same scheme as for research led computing
science projects, with emphasis on addressing a research question.
4.2.2 SE: Product-Focused Projects
These are focused on the delivery of a production quality software product. Product-led software
projects must have an identified customer with a real-world need. This may be an external
organisation, university academic or business unit, or the academic supervisor. The same high
level structure is used to assess product led projects, but the categories are interpreted differently,
because there is an expectation that the project will focus on the development of deliverable
software, rather than answering a research question:
• Analysis: A review of related products and a clear and comprehensive documentation of
product requirements.
• Product The extent to which the software code base is *deliverable*, i.e is of production
quality and can be handed over to the customer for use and on-going maintenance
through the application of good software engineering practice.
• Evaluation: efforts to demonstrate that the software meets customer requirements through
rigorous and documented acceptance tests; identification of future work (features,
enhancements).
If you are a Software Engineer, and in doubt about the suitability of your project for either
Software Engineering category, please contact the SE Programme Coordinator.
5 Professional conduct
We explicitly assess your professional behaviour in the project module, and it counts for 10% of
your grade. Good professional conduct varies, and your supervisor may give you more specific
advice, but we provide some general guidance.
Be aware that failure to take this guidance on board may affect your professional conduct
grade!
Mandatory documents
As well as your dissertation, you are required to maintain project documentation throughout the
project in the form of meeting records.
Your supervisor may ask to see them at any point, and they will be submitted with your final
dissertation. These documents are designed to be lightweight and easy to edit.
These are key pieces of evidence for the professional conduct category of marking, along with
your supervisor’s judgements of your professional behaviour.
Meeting records
Preparation for meetings
You should prepare questions to ask at meetings and have progress ready to show and discuss
(or if no progress has been possible, have prepared questions that will help you move forward).
It is good practice to have written questions and status report, even if brief, coming into a meeting.
Minuting meetings
You are responsible for taking minutes of meetings. You should do so. It is hard to remember
everything said in meetings without notes. How you take minutes is up to you -- handwritten notes,
Google Docs, etc. Be ready to share minutes with your supervisor, so you can make sure you are
both on the same page.
Where to Record Minutes
Minutes should be recorded on the “Meeting Minutes" section of the level 4 project Moodle page.
Other guidance
Attendance at meetings
If you cannot make a meeting, please rearrange a suitable time with your supervisor with
reasonable notice (your supervisor may also need to rearrange on occasion). If necessary, a
meeting may be cancelled, but avoid cancelling more than one meeting consecutively. If you
do not have a meeting for two weeks, the project coordinator will be informed. If a meeting is
cancelled, email a status report and/or any questions to your supervisor.
Use appropriate tools, particularly version control
You should use best practices and appropriate technology for the work you are doing. In particular,
you should use version control. The specific VCS you use is up to you and your supervisor, but
unless there are exceptional reasons you absolutely should use one. Your supervisor may wish
to have access to your project repository (e.g. so they can clone and test your code); be prepared
to accommodate this. If you intend to use a public VCS server (e.g. GitHub) discuss this with your
supervisor before doing so, in case there are any confidentiality issues; in general this should be
perfectly acceptable.
Set up a repository at the very start of your project. Do not write any code without a VCS
in place.
Reference management
As part of your project, you will need to manage a bibliography of references. The scope of this
bibliography will vary depending on your specific project. It is strongly recommended that you
use a reference manager like Zotero, papis, Mendeley or EndNote to manage your references,
from the very start of the project. These managers can be used to organise your research,
annotate references and automatically produce BibTeX ready for inclusion in your report. Note
that you can be penalised for an inaccurate or poorly formatted bibliography in the dissertation
portion of the marking scheme; a reference manager will minimise that risk.
Interaction with clients
If your project involves interaction with clients, your professional conduct will include your conduct
in client meetings. Make sure you are thoroughly prepared for client meetings, minute meetings
and share the minutes with the client (if appropriate). Bear in mind that your actions in client
meetings affect the reputation of the University as a whole.
Plagiarism
You should check the University plagiarism policy very carefully, and rigorously adhere to the
rules. Uncited text and figures have cost students dearly in Academic Conduct proceedings
in recent years. The University has no tolerance for plagiarism and the rules are enforced
vigorously. Plagiarism in the final project can jeopardise your entire degree.
Ethics
If you are doing a project that involves any human participants at all, your research must comply
with the School Ethics procedure. See http://www.dcs.gla.ac.uk/ethics/ for details of what this
entails. In most cases, a checklist procedure is sufficient, but it is your responsibility to make sure
appropriate ethical approval has been gained. You should include evidence of compliance
with ethical procedures (e.g. signed checklist or an approval notice) in the appendices of
your dissertation.
5.1 IP, commercial partners and employers
Projects with external partners are welcomed, and can offer interesting challenges and real-world
experience, but there are some additional complexities which should be borne in mind. For the
purposes of this discussion a “partner” is anyone involved in the project other than you and your
academic supervisor(s).
IP
By default, you will own all intellectual property developed during the project (not the University
or your supervisor). You may be asked to transfer IP rights as part of an agreement with a partner.
You cannot be made to do this, but if you do not you will be in all likelihood be unable to work with
that partner.
NDAs
In certain rare cases, you may be asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) with a partner
before beginning work. This again is at your option, but not doing so will preclude you from
continuing the project with the partner. If you do sign an NDA, you must adhere to it rigorously.
There are usually severe legal penalties for violating the terms, and you should be careful even
discussing the work with classmates. Your supervisor can give you more precise information if
this applies to you.
Partners
A project with a partner cannot simply work as if you were an employee of that partner. You must
be demonstrating independent development of the work, and not following specific weekly
directions from the partner. The overall topic and direction can of course be given by the partner.
Your supervisor can give you guidance on what level of direction is appropriate for your specific
project.
Particular care should be taken if you are actually a current employee of the partner. It must be
crystal clear that the project is directed by the academic supervisor for your academic benefit, and
not for the (sole) benefit of the employer (e.g. it doesn’t matter that feature X is needed for a
release next week -- if it’s not directly relevant to producing a good project dissertation). Students
will need to seek special permission from the project coordinator to undertake projects
with their current employers as partners.
6 When things go wrong
Most projects run smoothly without significant problems. However, there have been cases where
things have not gone to plan, and this can have serious consequences for your degree.
6.1 Let us know early
If problems do occur, let the project coordinator know as soon as possible. These might be health
or personal issues, conflicts with supervisor or issues with access to clients, data, software or
hardware. Not every problem is easily fixable, but there is virtually nothing that can be done by
the time it gets to hand in. Remember that while your supervisor can provide support and
guidance, you are responsible for delivering the project. You will be expected to work around
obstacles that occur during the project in a professional manner.
6.2 Late submission and extensions
We do not typically offer any extensions for projects.
If you submit late, you will be subject to a two-band-per-day penalty, as in other modules. This
has a major effect on your degree classification. A few days late could reduce your overall
classification from a First to a 2:1. Do not miss the deadline.
Extensions will only be granted in exceptional cases with Good Cause claims, and will require
written evidence that indicates why you could not submit the project at the deadline (e.g. medical
issues). Problems that occurred earlier in the project are not likely to be considered as reasonable
cause for an extension unless they are ongoing at the time of submission. Any such extensions
are normally limited to one week, and in very rare occasions two weeks. No further extension
is possible, regardless of circumstances.
6.3 Non-submission
Graduating with an Honours degree requires that you have passed an individual project module.
If you do not submit your project, you will receive credit withheld and be unable to graduate without
a possibility of resit.
In exceptional cases where sufficient medical evidence has been submitted you may receive a
medical void. However, if the project is voided you still cannot graduate with an Honours degree.
In these cases you may be permitted to re-submit a project for a following exam board, but this is
at the School's discretion and it will incur a delay of at least six months to graduation. You may
alternatively be required to resit the entire year, if you are qualified to do so.